# FAQs â€“ Material for MkDocs

In this section you will find the most frequently asked questions related to 
Material for MkDocs. As we maintainers have decided to monetize Material for 
MkDocs to spend more time working on this project, we have divided the project 
and its features into two versions with two repositories. 

:fontawesome-solid-people-group: __Community version__ which is a public 
repository and included all the basic features and is updated once the funding 
goals are reached

:fontawesome-solid-people-arrows: __Insiders verion__ which is a private 
repository exclusively for our Insiders which contains more exclusive features


## General

__What is the difference between Material for MkDocs and other documentation frameworks?__
> Material for MkDocs is a documentation framework built on top of MkDocs, a 
popular static site generator. Unlike other documentation frameworks, Material 
for MkDocs provides a clean, modern, and responsive user interface that's highly 
customizable. It also offers advanced theming options, a wide range of plugins, 
and custom components that make it easy to create professional-looking 
documentation sites quickly and efficiently.

LINK



## Licensing

__Under which license does Material for MkDocs run?__
> Material for MkDocs runs under the [MIT License], which means that it is free 
for everyone to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
and/or sell copies of the software.

  [MIT License]: https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/license/?h=lice



## Support

__I have a question. Where do I ask it?__
> You can ask your question on our [discussion board]. We are all about building 
an open supportive community where everyone can share their knowledge and 
insights. This allows us to maintain transparency and ensures that all of our 
users have access to the same information. We encourage all of our users to 
visit this discussion board or our issue tracker and search for previous 
discussions to see if their question has already been addressed or start a new 
discussion if needed.

  [discussion board]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/discussions
