# Contributing

Material for MkDocs is an actively maintained and constantly improved project 
that serves a diverse user base with varying backgrounds and needs. In order to 
effectively address the needs of all our users, evaluate requests, and fix bugs, 
we maintainers need to put in a lot of work.

## How to contribute

We have invested a lot of time in creating better templates for our
[issue tracker], optimizing the processes for our users to report bugs, request
features or changes, contribute to the project, or exchange with our community. 
This section of the documentation explains each process.

### Creating an issue

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-bug:{ .lg .middle } __Something is not working?__

    ---

    Report a bug in Material for MkDocs by creating an issue and a reproduction

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Report a bug][report a bug]

-   :material-file-document:{ .lg .middle } __Missing information in our docs?__

    ---

    Report missing information or potential inconsistencies in our documentation

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Report a docs issue][report a docs issue]

-   :material-lightbulb-on:{ .lg .middle } __Want to submit an idea?__

    ---

    Propose a change, feature request, or suggest an improvement

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Request a change][request a change]

-   :material-chat-question:{ .lg .middle } __Have a question or need help?__

    ---

    Ask a question on our discussion board and get in touch with our community

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Ask a question][ask a question]

</div>

### Contributing to this project

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-translate-variant:{ .lg .middle } __Missing support for your language?__

    ---

    Add missing translations for a new or supported language

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Add a translation](https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/adding-a-translation)

-   :material-source-pull:{ .lg .middle } __Want to create a pull request?__

    ---

    Learn how to create a comprehensive pull request (PR)

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Create a pull request](https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/creating-a-pull-request)

</div>

  [report a bug]: reporting-a-bug.md
  [report a docs issue]: reporting-a-docs-issue.md
  [request a change]: requesting-a-change.md
  [ask a question]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/discussions

## Before contributing

Our community is vast and includes many curious people who open new discussions 
or issues multiple times a day, filling the issue tracker or the discussion 
board with a lot of valuable knowledge. As such, we consider our issue tracker 
and discussion board to be a knowledge base that is an important addition to our 
documentation, and brings value to both new and experienced users of Material 
for MkDocs.

To ensure that our [issue tracker] and [discussion board] remain __structured__, 
__searchable__ and __easy to follow__, it is mandatory to make sure you are 
contributing in the right context and environment before submitting an issue, 
opening a discussion or commenting on existing discussions or subpages.

### Before submitting an issue, ask yourself:

  :material-head-question: Is this the right issue template for my request or report?

  :material-head-question: Have I provided all the information requested in the issue template?

### Before asking a question, consider:

  :material-head-question: Is my request related to the discussion I'm commenting on?

  :material-head-question: Should I open a new discussion for my request?

  :material-head-question: Is my request a question for the community, or should it be a bug report?

  :material-head-question: Have I provided the community with the necessary information?

### When commenting on blog posts, ask yourself:

  :material-head-question: Is my comment directly related to the content of this blog post?

!!! warning "Issues are permanent"

    Please note that all issues and discussions are permanent and will remain 
    for everyone to read in this project. Therefore, it is essential to follow 
    our contribution guidelines and comply with our Code of Conduct.

## Code of Conduct

With a large community like ours, it's important to follow the rules of a 
[Code of Conduct] and value the standards of acceptable behavior. Please make
sure to especially pay attention to the following points and keep them in mind 
when interacting within this project.  

:material-account-multiple-check: Treat the community and the maintainers with respect

:material-comment-text-multiple: Use welcoming, inclusive, and respectful language

:material-account-box-multiple: Embrace and understand different viewpoints and experiences

:material-checkbox-multiple-marked-circle: Accept decisions from the maintainers, even if things are not going your way

:material-heart-multiple: Focus on what's best for the community and show empathy towards other community members

## Rights of the Maintainers

As maintainers, we reserve the right and have the responsibility to close, 
remove, reject, or edit contributions, such as issues, comments, or commits, 
that do not align with our contribution guidelines and our [Code of Conduct].

### Incomplete issues

We have invested significant time in reviewing our contribution process and 
carefully assessed the information that is crucial to us when reviewing and 
responding to issues. Each field in our issue templates has been thoughtfully 
curated, requesting only the information required to understand your report or 
request. Therefore, it is mandatory for you to fill out every field as requested 
to the best of your knowledge without questioning the issue template. This 
ensures that every user and project maintainer, regardless of experience, can 
understand the content and severity of your report or request.

Please note that we __reserve the right to close issues__ that require more 
information, such as minimal reproductions, or that do not comply with the 
quality standards and requirements stated in the issue template. Issues can be 
reopened once the missing information has been provided.


### Code of Conduct violations

As our [Code of Conduct] outlines, it is essential to treat the community and 
the maintainers with respect and use inclusive, welcoming language. We 
__reserve the right and have the responsibility to remove, edit, or reject any contributions__,
including comments, commits, and issues, that violate our Code of Conduct. This 
includes behavior that is inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful.

Please note that we take violations of these guidelines very seriously and 
reserve the right and responsibility to temporarily or permanently ban users 
from contributing to the project. Therefore, we ask that all community members 
keep our [Code of Conduct] in mind when interacting with others and seek to 
build a positive and respectful community.

  [discussion board]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/discussions
  [issue tracker]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/issues
  [Code of Conduct]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

